# Pomodoro Timer App
- The pomodoro timer is concept where a person works for few minutes and take break repeat it for 4 times then take a long break.
- Here we work for 25 minutes and take a break for 5 minutes and long break is for 30 minutes.
- Step 1 : To develop GUI usng tkinter module and we used canvas widget to import image onto the screen using create_image() method. And added a text on the image using create_text() method. Added a background color using Hex code by creating a global constants using bg keyword and used highlightthickness keyword to remove any white background color added starrt, reset button using Butto widget and added Title using Label widget.
- Step 2 : To add count down mechanism created a function called countdown then used a built in function of tkinter called after() method which can loop through the seconds, and passed the same function and count-1 to reduce the seconds and added count > 0 to stop the counting at 0 then used logic to count minutes by dividing the count by 60 then using math.floor() method to round up to the nearest integer.Then using dynamic typing concept changed the integer to str so that it shows 00:09 or 5:00 instead of 5:0. Then updated the display of the canvas text message using item.config. Then added an else statement to reset the timer again after hitting 0 then updated check marks after the one cycle of work time and break time by dividing reps by 2 so that we would get 4 reps of the time and using math.floor() method to round it to the closet int. Then adding the check mark. and using config() method to append the check marks to it.
- Step 3: To add start timer mechanism to keep the number of repetition then calculating the work_secs,short_break,long_break to display the time interms of minutes and hours instead of showing it interms of seconds remaining. Then to display when the user clicks start to display long break by dividing the reps by 8 or dividing it by 2 for short break display else work in the title using config() method to update the display.
- Step 4 : To add reset timer mechanism by creating a new function and creating a global variable called timer and initialzing it to 0 and adding it to the countdown function assigning it to window.after.Then using the method after_cancel() method to stop the time counting and upadting the display text using itemconfig() method and updating the title to timer using config() method and initializing the rep to 0 to remove check marks removing the check marks using config() method.
